Undraft the bylaws: membership [due 13 May] (#154)
commonhaus/foundation: bylaws/2-cf-membership.md

A **project** within the CF represents collaborative innovation in open source technology. These projects are dynamic collectives of individual contributors, functioning as self-organizing units rather than formal legal entities.[^1]

> **Flexible and Inclusive Structure:** Projects can vary in size and scope, ranging from individual repositories to entire collections of repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Flexible and Inclusive Structure:** Projects vary in size and scope&mdash;a project might have a single repository, or it might encompass multiple repositories.
```

Whether it's a single focused effort or a collection of related initiatives, each project is defined by common goals and shared assets, including code, trademarks, and domains.

> While the CF uses GitHub as the primary platform for collaboration, projects may be hosted on other platforms as well.

Reviewer: Is there some sort of requirement that such a platform must meet? Like, from a project continuity point of view, it should not be enough to have the GH repo hosted on a server in my bedroom, nor even on a server hosted by a small company.

Author: I want to include those specifics in project on-boarding + fiscal hosting agreement, rather than in the bylaws.

Reviewer: OK

[^1]: Contributors may be affiliated with various organizations or companies, but they contribute as individuals.

### Project Representation

**Diverse Voices, Unified Decision-Making:** Each project within the Commonhaus Foundation (CF) has its unique perspective, and its own legitimate interests in decisions taken by the foundation as a whole.
To ensure that every project has a say in the direction of the foundation, each project appoints a representative to the [Extended Governance Committee (EGC)][egc].

The EGC representative:

- is chosen according to the project's own governance practices,

> - is not required to have or maintain general membership in the foundation, but

Reviewer 2: just out of curiosity - in other foundations (e.g. apache/eclipse) all committers to a project are inherently members of the foundation (if they aren't they can't be committers and vice versa afaik).

This is afaik to at least have one foundation member be responsible/traced back to for how a commit entered the repos.

With today's automation of things one don't really need to be a committer to put code into a project - so anyone as long as the automation lets them (by mistake or process) can push code. 

...similar applies here - anyone can by this line of "is not required" influence projects/the foundation without membership.

Author: > all committers to a project are inherently members of the foundation

To ensure we can be member-supported, that isn't the case here. Members help by buying the foundation a beer or a fancy coffee annually (and get some special things due to that). That helps keep the lights on. I don't want to be dependent only on big donations from vendors.

The EGC is special, and I'm not requiring that person to be a (paying) regular member as they are appointed by the project and have a responsible/leadership role. They can be regular members, too, and I hope they will be, but that part isn't required.

> This is afaik to at least have one foundation member be responsible/traced back to for how a commit entered the repos.

The EGC rep is the responsible party here.

> anyone can by this line of "is not required" influence projects/the foundation without membership.

Projects are required to use the DCO. You don't have to be a member to contribute code to a project. You do have to be a member to hold an office or vote in elections for foundation officers / council members.

> - is chosen according to the project's own governance practices.
> - is not required to have or maintain general membership in the foundation.
> - must have a GitHub account to participate in CF [discussions][discussions] and [votes][voting].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- is chosen according to the project's own governance practices,
- is not required to have or maintain general membership in the foundation, but
- must have a GitHub account to participate in CF [discussions][discussions] and [votes][voting].
```

> - must have a GitHub account to participate in CF [discussions][discussions] and [votes][voting].

Reviewer 2: I know it is minor thing but should we leave out explicit technology choices of memberships in the bylaws and have that in policy/implementatin docs instead?

Speaking out of experience that Eclipse had to do tedious updates to bylaws that requires extra level of voting as it had bugzilla and other superhip tech in their bylaws.

Author: In this case, there were questions about whether or not an account would be required. 

I am working on the EGC member checklist separately, so I could move that there.

**Dedicated Representation:** If an EGC representative is elected to the [CF Council (CFC)][cfc], we recommend appointing an additional representative for the EGC (if possible) to ensure project-specific needs are represented.

## General Members

> **Join as an individual[^3].** Membership to the CF is open to all individuals who share our mission and meet the outlined eligibility criteria.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what it means for an individual to "share our mission".

I mean, it sounds nice 'n all, but I suspect it could be deleted without changing any semantics.

Author: In this case: I'm requesting a willingness to participate constructively. i.e. you agree this foundation serves a purpose and should exist.

Reviewer: Something like "wishes to support the mission of the foundation or the development of its projects", perhaps.

Author: +- =)

> **Join as an individual[^3].** Membership to the CF is open to all individuals who share our mission and meet the outlined eligibility criteria.

Author: ```suggestion
**Join as an individual[^3].** Membership to the CF is open to all individuals who meet the outlined eligibility criteria and want to support the foundation's mission or the development of its projects.
```

Author: @gavinking ?

Reviewer: LGTM

> **Join as an individual[^3].** Membership to the CF is open to all individuals who meet the outlined eligibility criteria and want to support the foundation's mission or the development of its projects.

Reviewer 2: shuold that "or" be a an and/or ?

Author: Nope. It is an "and". There is nothing automatic here. This is a membership organization supported by dues.

- **Voluntary Resignation:** Members can choose to retire at any time, transitioning to an emeritus or inactive role while remaining part of our community.
- **Inactivity:** Members who fail to meet the [eligibility criteria](#general-members) for 12 months will transition to an inactive status.

> Inactive members (of any type) do not have the right to vote in elections and are ineligible for membership in the CFC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inactive members (of any type) do not have the right to vote in elections and are ineligible for CFC membership. 
```
